{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Comments\
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 1. What is the gap between Gene Circuits Models and reality\
 1.b , cell you put them in. fundamental probelm\
 1.c, smipl,e opto-genetic, \
\
\
amplifier circuit, viral promoter, all the places it can break, \
trouble shoot it, \
optimzie for cell types. getting celss in general. \
all comes down to pratical, boring but important problems. \
\
tRNA, \
\
talk about program, they behave, sloppy massive sloppyier, overlaps, \
\
2.What are some sample questions for a bioinformatics hire. and\
\
3. What are some sample questions for a software engineer/ML\
\
Tool, familarity, \
generally true. \
\
   learn stuff, \
\
\
very specific to the project, raise good questiosn, I wrote code, before I got in to bio,\
how good a programmer, I knew ,\
\
1. How you go to about solving problem, to kill this one cell and nothing else. \
   person there thought process, there is alot of tools he never heard of.\
   always something new. centi-bio, how they think and waht they are building, \
   how do you build cell-state,\
\
 ON CHAT-GPT, THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE DATABASES. I was ablt to find databases, it was not helpfully. How t. chat-GPT scientific. \
  \
  certainly, full fo shit, \
\
  weight farmility of tools.  \
\
\
	 how to pull tools together, how to inditifiy, how you think about. \
   Know as muc has possible on going to it. \
\
   sample questiosn. partially reprogramming, going to far. write a circuit, boot,  assess the age of it'sef.  activate, the yamanka, factoris, \
\
   never push a cell too far, 100, 1, \
\
\
   technically possible, but not doable today. \
\
   homing endonucleus, long restriction site, you littered through your payload.  pretty long. (the site can not exist in humans). There is so many of them.  \
\
1-.   two or three different things. \
\
4. What are the bottle necks between what he is doing in mice and translating the therapies to humans\
\
5/8Introduce some blue sky ideas, like microwave convergence for gene activation\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
7. Would upregulating FOXN1 help regrow thymus later in life? and thus restore some immune function\
\
7.b. Epigenomic editors, putting methylation, \
\
8. Coud you use radiowave/microwaves for Stereotactic gene activation. In ths case, heat might be the gene activator. Applications might include killing off viseral fat via apotosis or FOXN1 activation for the thymus only. \
\
\
\
9. Debugger "Gene Circuits" seems pretty difficult. Do you have any ideas to make it easier?\
\
T-Cell. \
\
\
RNA scope. there not cheap, the yallow you do multiple plexing. All these circuits, turnign on. \
RNA scope- staing ihc, staing, \
\
\
similar to fihs. IHC< alot of smaller, \
\
\
fat cell, bridge that gap. find a lab to work, read a bunc hof papers. \
\
\
nohting but tools ,read these things. \
a couple a hundres pages. 100's of these publication, what the tools waht the tools where, \
\
immunosoft, teh mastes of hwo to live plasmis theraputics, \
out source, who is good at its.\
\
learn it all, \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0  Would upregulating FOXN1 help regrow thymus later in life? and thus restore some immune function\
\
\
Exosomes, it's no nano\
NANodistics, \
\
exosomes \
\
l\
codon, initially, \
builkd , \
mass experiment,s guess waht hte next effective expreimetns, applicatable , biotech pattern, \
for if you have ML, skill, \
]\
\
indutrial applications, about to age to death, \
}