{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12820\viewh11160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1. Aging is define by Entropy > Development \
(Development getting stronger more fit in general),\
odds of internal mortality is going down. extrinsic mortality is not factor in to this.\
\
2. Entropy can be catocrized in two ways, one as Damage \
\
\
Entropy leads to - Damage accumulation. Loss of information ,\
\
\
(genetic, epigenetic, cell signaling noise)\
\
\
\
1. Identify different types of damge that accumulate through the body, damge species,\
\
 (there are some classical defined ones, more are less).  \
\
 Senscent cells have been defined as "damage" paradigm, but are they exactly damge?  Senscent in some context play a useuflly role, when they are deployed limited fashion.  Just like inflammation, (it's plays a usually full when it's acutely expressed).\
  Inflammation is a system genrellay usefully for to maintain homestatis.  Like alot of proceees in the human body, the evolution pressure of it was designed for 0 - 30 years old. From the >30 the pressure of evolution lessens.  The inflammation may be "overclocked" are more "clumsy" when we get older, so interventions to dampen it down may be usefully (depending on the person).  But it's important to remember that inflammation is an important component to the body's homestatis system.  When the adaptive immune system ages the body ends up invoking the innate immune system more than what's optimal. \
But is inflammation? I would say it's more of a result of aging rather then a primary cause, alto reducing it in later years can still be uselly.  Is Reducing inflammation "treating aging', perhaps it depensd on waht is causing the inflammation to go down.  While Rapamycin may be usefully to reducing the overactivation that inflammation later in life (when inflammationl\
\
That being said Rapamycin is not really treating the root cause of aging by weaking of aging harmfully side effects, but it's still can be benefical for lifepsan and healthspan never the less.\
\
\
\
For example,\
\
\
Identifying "damage' in the body. How can we identify (some are already somewhat well known) this include thigns like *scenscent cells,  cross-links and other things in the cells. \
\
\
A ridicoulus over simple way of trying to summarize aging in a formula, might look something like this\
\
Aging as a graph,\
\
Aging ~ \uc0\u8721  (Centrality X (Entropy) ) - (\u8710  Development)\
\
As you get older the biomarkers get noisy (the variance incraes between measurements). The 'choas' of the system increases.\
\
How to identify, (focusing on the damge are functionality damge).\
\
lipofuscin, glucespane.\
\
Soluable damage\
Looking over a broad population with many measurements.\
\
N>10,000, ages raning from 20-90 (this will take time to accumulate information)\
\
1.(Look for non-enzymatic species in the bio-fluids, are biomoecluses that have non-enzmatic additions on to them). \
\
\
2. Which of these non-enzymatic species goes up over age?\
\
3. Which of these "Damage" candiates is associated with a particular aging related disease are are related maladity (like mild sacropenia, skin wrinkels, grey hair\
 (even when you control for the age of the subject?)\
\
\
\
\
Gene circuits,\
\
1. Classical issues, is getting the vector into the cell. \
	1.b looks like technology like Oisin has come a long ways with that.\
	1.c  The distribution looks pretty good, from the lungs was the most active and the brain was the less, but it quite good compared to (8000 fentograms of dna in the lungs and maybe 8 fentograms in the pituary brain)\
\
2. Limitations\
	//1. most of the work has been in mice, not entirely sure how this will translate to humans (it is used in human clinical trials)\
           2. While the distribution is even, in absolute in terms of peneration is not well understood\
	3. The payload is limited (the vector is relatively small) (getting gene circuits may need larger viral payloads).\
(PLVs), already been used in human, large licensing deal, PLV(s) talk in application, translation focued, already used in human \
3. possible work arounds,\
  1. Have a plv virus, replicate it self to ther cells, but have a limited amount of replicative cycles (like having telomeres)\
1.b. Create a heat shock protein as a way to (above 103.5 degress) to destroy the replicative nature of the virus\
\
1.c or perahps just do multiple doses and have circut logic that limits the amount of reinfection.\
\
2. To increase the viral load, we could have the PLV vector create a "USB" for the cell.  These recepts would go to the surface of the cells and allow larger viral payloads to get in, Ithe USB can be different per cell type. \
\
\
Some things we could do with GENE circuits.  \
1. Find and cell Senscent cells and/or precancerous cells, cells we want to kill for whatever reason (like viseral fat).\
2. Conditional based partial reprogramming or conditional telomerase therapy.  \
\
for example,\
If the Cell is not pre-cancerous (has zero onco-gene expression for it's cell type, is using mitochondria effectivly, ya-da-ya-da, but the cell has short telomeres, you could temopary expression telomerase, unti the telemeres are reasonable restore are some short-circuit mechanism is tripped.\
\
You could also do the same process with partial-reprogramming or a variant of it.\
\
\
\
    1. Create multiple,\
\
\
1. Hearing about the idea of Gene circuits\
1. Heard about the idea of Gene circuits from Matt Schultz from ocean,  They are tartgeting cell via mRNA transripts (so if P16 is active ) and senolytic marker the suicide gene is activated.\
- They also activated P56 (the cancer fighting gene) to help fight caner. \
I know they made three different models ,\
\
AAV, (can be selected, but the body only allows one shot),\
NanoLipids (just fast), mainly wides up in the liver, \
AAV, activateds the immune system.\
\
PLV (sorta of a mixture of the two)\
\
applications for gene circuit seems very high.\
\
They can conditional target cells. \
Different appications., \
Find pre-Cancer cells (not necessary scenscent cell) and perahps kill them)\
2. You could fortied your lysoomes (to tackle lipofuscin), something that the body doesn't attack naturally.\
3. You could barcode the cell, (so it has a unique id)\
\
Have you \
4. You could create \
\
\
Some gene therpays are integrative, which means they actually go into your Genome, other ones, will create a temporary micro-chromosome plasmid, that will only last a certain amount of time (the plasmid is not maintained)\
\
4. Could create a black box. (I heard George Church talk about this some).  Where if yo\
\
Oisin/Background of why you are interested\
\
1. Background about gene circuits, (Oisin)\
1.b. What they are doing , talk about PLV and pro and cons\
1.c They have done some safety testing in non-humn primates (10 times the amount)\
\
2. They are different parts (iPart.Gem)\
2.b bioCompilers that will mix and match these parts. The intent is to work high level\
(https://sbolstandard.org/applications/protobiocompiler/), SBOL (synthetic Biology Open Language)\
different applications to possible write or make somthing in this language that is usefully\
3. Heard of things like invertors, so activate if this is activate, only active if gene x is not active.\
4. Cool to add are own parts, like ratio, so if Gene X is at least 10 X greather then Gene Y, then active Gene Z from the plasmid. \
4.b Having counters/ or telemers for proliferation of gene contruct ot other cells (to increase gene saturation, without cause a uncontrolled dosage situation. (you can only replicate X 8 times ) get 100,000,000 peneerations , allow it go 10 times\
(alot of genes are expressed at very low levels, having ratios might be nice)\
\
\
5. Could kill \
\
\
3. these are different parts that do different thigns (invertors), if you is active then  isTrue not isTrue\
3.b give \
\
gen fun , ieas, \
\
\
make a system of notes, info,\
track, \
\
\
Feedback, spreading, \
\
(synthetic Biology Open Languauge) \
\
invite a speaker to our mastermind,\
\
LBF, \
\
greg fahy\
\
ratio of the [1/10]\
\
\
PLV [t]\
\
stop \
\
safety valve, virus, \
\
\
\
}